##getting Started

This will be the first series of blog articles on python programming. Python is a very powerful language because of its support of the information security community. This means that many tools are written in python and can call many modules in scripts. The benefit of using a module is that it requires only a small amount of code to accomplish the required tasks.

This article assumes your system is Linux and the python version is 2. *. When writing the code you can also write directly inside the interpreter (linux enter python inside), you can put the code inside a file. Many people will find it much better to put the code in the file than directly on the interpreter. It is noteworthy that python mandatory indentation. Everyone in the write function declarations, loops, if / else statements, etc. will be found.

python interpreter

Type python in the terminal

~$ python
Python 2.7.6 (default, Mar 22 2014, 22:59:56) 
[GCC 4.8.2] on linux2
Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
>>> 
After typing you can write your code directly in the interpreter. Below we will declare two variables, and use the type () function to see the type of the variable. Suppose we declare a string and an integer:

>>>
>>> ip = '8.8.8.8'
>>> port = 53
>>>
>>> type(ip)
<type 'str'>
>>>
>>> type(port)
<type 'int'>
>>>
You can use the built-in help () function to understand the details of a function. Keep this in mind, it can help you to learn more details when you learn the language.

>>>
>>> help(type)
>>>
Sometimes you will want to connect variables and strings and display them in scripts. Then you need to use the str () function to convert an integer to a string

>>> ip='1.1.1.1'
>>> port=55
>>> print 'the ip is:'+ip+'and the port is:'+str(port)
the ip is:1.1.1.1and the port is:55
The front of the statement variables "IP" is a string does not require conversion, and "port" on the need. Now you already know two basic data types (string and integer). Now you can try using the built-in functions and write the other code with these two data types.

Python strings allow you to get the string you want by offsetting it, and get the length of the string with the len () function, which can help you manipulate strings more easily.

>>>
>>> domain='primalsecurity.net'
>>> domain
'primalsecurity.net'
>>> domain[0]
'p'
>>> domain[0:3]
'pri'
>>> domain[1:]
'rimalsecurity.net'
 
>>> len(domain)
18
You can use the built-in dir () function to list the identifier of a module definition. Identifiers have functions, classes, and variables.

>>> dir(ip)
['__add__', '__class__', '__contains__', '__delattr__', '__doc__', '__eq__', '__format__', '__ge__', '__getattribute__', '__getitem__', '__getnewargs__', '__getslice__', '__gt__', '__hash__', '__init__', '__le__', '__len__', '__lt__', '__mod__', '__mul__', '__ne__', '__new__', '__reduce__', '__reduce_ex__', '__repr__', '__rmod__', '__rmul__', '__setattr__', '__sizeof__', '__str__', '__subclasshook__', '_formatter_field_name_split', '_formatter_parser', 'capitalize', 'center', 'count', 'decode', 'encode', 'endswith', 'expandtabs', 'find', 'format', 'index', 'isalnum', 'isalpha', 'isdigit', 'islower', 'isspace', 'istitle', 'isupper', 'join', 'ljust', 'lower', 'lstrip', 'partition', 'replace', 'rfind', 'rindex', 'rjust', 'rpartition', 'rsplit', 'rstrip', 'split', 'splitlines', 'startswith', 'strip', 'swapcase', 'title', 'translate', 'upper', 'zfill']
Now you can use the built-in string functions listed above, if you want to know more about this function can refer to the help () function mentioned earlier:

>>>
>>> help(ip.split)
>>>
>>> string = ip+':'+str(port)
>>> string
'8.8.8.8:53'
>>>
>>> string.split(':')
['8.8.8.8', '53']
This split function creates a new list by cutting a string through ":". This is a very useful string function because you can come up with useful information in this string. For example, you get an ip list, you want to add an index value in this list. You can also delete and add new values ​​to this list via the .append () and .remove () functions

>>>
>>> list = string.split(':')
>>>
>>> list
['8.8.8.8', '53']
>>>
>>> list[0]
'8.8.8.8'
>>>
>>> list.append('google')
>>> list
['8.8.8.8', '53', 'google']
>>> list.remove('google')
>>> list
['8.8.8.8', '53']
>>> 
Python module

As mentioned above, the Python module lets you do your job with a small amount of code. Python has many useful built-in modules (os, subprocess, socket, urllib, httplib, re, sys, etc.) and third parties Modules (cymruwhois, scapy, dpkt, spider, etc.) Using Python modules is easy "import." The OS module is very important because you need to invoke system commands inside your Python code:

>>>
>>> import os
>>>
>>> dir(os)
['EX_CANTCREAT', 'EX_CONFIG', 'EX_DATAERR', 'EX_IOERR', 'EX_NOHOST', 'EX_NOINPUT', 'EX_NOPERM', 'EX_NOUSER', 'EX_OK', 'EX_OSERR', 'EX_OSFILE', 'EX_PROTOCOL', 'EX_SOFTWARE', 'EX_TEMPFAIL', 'EX_UNAVAILABLE', 'EX_USAGE', 'F_OK', 'NGROUPS_MAX', 'O_APPEND', 'O_ASYNC', 'O_CREAT', 'O_DIRECT', 'O_DIRECTORY', 'O_DSYNC', 'O_EXCL', 'O_LARGEFILE', 'O_NDELAY', 'O_NOATIME', 'O_NOCTTY', 'O_NOFOLLOW', 'O_NONBLOCK', 'O_RDONLY', 'O_RDWR', 'O_RSYNC', 'O_SYNC', 'O_TRUNC', 'O_WRONLY', 'P_NOWAIT', 'P_NOWAITO', 'P_WAIT', 'R_OK', 'SEEK_CUR', 'SEEK_END', 'SEEK_SET', 'ST_APPEND', 'ST_MANDLOCK', 'ST_NOATIME', 'ST_NODEV', 'ST_NODIRATIME', 'ST_NOEXEC', 'ST_NOSUID', 'ST_RDONLY', 'ST_RELATIME', 'ST_SYNCHRONOUS', 'ST_WRITE', 'TMP_MAX', 'UserDict', 'WCONTINUED', 'WCOREDUMP', 'WEXITSTATUS', 'WIFCONTINUED', 'WIFEXITED', 'WIFSIGNALED', 'WIFSTOPPED', 'WNOHANG', 'WSTOPSIG', 'WTERMSIG', 'WUNTRACED', 'W_OK', 'X_OK', '_Environ', '__all__', '__builtins__', '__doc__', '__file__', '__name__', '__package__', '_copy_reg', '_execvpe', '_exists', '_exit', '_get_exports_list', '_make_stat_result', '_make_statvfs_result', '_pickle_stat_result', '_pickle_statvfs_result', '_spawnvef', 'abort', 'access', 'altsep', 'chdir', 'chmod', 'chown', 'chroot', 'close', 'closerange', 'confstr', 'confstr_names', 'ctermid', 'curdir', 'defpath', 'devnull', 'dup', 'dup2', 'environ', 'errno', 'error', 'execl', 'execle', 'execlp', 'execlpe', 'execv', 'execve', 'execvp', 'execvpe', 'extsep', 'fchdir', 'fchmod', 'fchown', 'fdatasync', 'fdopen', 'fork', 'forkpty', 'fpathconf', 'fstat', 'fstatvfs', 'fsync', 'ftruncate', 'getcwd', 'getcwdu', 'getegid', 'getenv', 'geteuid', 'getgid', 'getgroups', 'getloadavg', 'getlogin', 'getpgid', 'getpgrp', 'getpid', 'getppid', 'getresgid', 'getresuid', 'getsid', 'getuid', 'initgroups', 'isatty', 'kill', 'killpg', 'lchown', 'linesep', 'link', 'listdir', 'lseek', 'lstat', 'major', 'makedev', 'makedirs', 'minor', 'mkdir', 'mkfifo', 'mknod', 'name', 'nice', 'open', 'openpty', 'pardir', 'path', 'pathconf', 'pathconf_names', 'pathsep', 'pipe', 'popen', 'popen2', 'popen3', 'popen4', 'putenv', 'read', 'readlink', 'remove', 'removedirs', 'rename', 'renames', 'rmdir', 'sep', 'setegid', 'seteuid', 'setgid', 'setgroups', 'setpgid', 'setpgrp', 'setregid', 'setresgid', 'setresuid', 'setreuid', 'setsid', 'setuid', 'spawnl', 'spawnle', 'spawnlp', 'spawnlpe', 'spawnv', 'spawnve', 'spawnvp', 'spawnvpe', 'stat', 'stat_float_times', 'stat_result', 'statvfs', 'statvfs_result', 'strerror', 'symlink', 'sys', 'sysconf', 'sysconf_names', 'system', 'tcgetpgrp', 'tcsetpgrp', 'tempnam', 'times', 'tmpfile', 'tmpnam', 'ttyname', 'umask', 'uname', 'unlink', 'unsetenv', 'urandom', 'utime', 'wait', 'wait3', 'wait4', 'waitpid', 'walk', 'write']
>>>
You can see that the above os module gives you a lot of usable functions, where I find that I often use "os.system", I can pass it a command, and then use it to execute the commands we pass on the bottom of the system Below we will execute a command "echo 'UHJpbWFsIFNlY3VyaXR5Cg ==' | base64 -d":

>>>
>>> os.system("echo 'UHJpbWFsIFNlY3VyaXR5Cg==' | base64 -d")
Primal Security
>>>
Create a file object

Now we will demonstrate some examples of how to read data and create a file from within a file in Python. The following example shows how to create a file object, and read / write data to this object, usually you read a file of data, and do some logic and then write the output inside the file:

>>>
>>> file = open('test.txt', 'w')
>>> file.write('Hello World')
>>> file.close()    
>>> file = open('test.txt', 'r')
>>> file.readlines()
['Hello World']
>>>
Practice the contents of the Python interpreter inside and more consolidation, because these contents will be used frequently in later chapters, when I write the code, I like to open two terminals, one for the implementation of python interpreter, there is a Used to write logic inside the script. The next chapter will write a real Python script that declares definitions, classes, and sys modules.