## Getting Started (2)

This chapter will continue with some basic Python scripting concepts, and we'll write the code into a script, functions, classes, and sys modules.

Python scripting framework

Here's a basic example of starting to write a Python script. At the beginning, let's tell the system which interpreter "#! / Usr / bin / env python" needs to be used. Then we declare a main function via "def main ():" , The last two lines of code main () first implementation. You can define other functions defined in your script, which makes your code easier to understand and modify:

#!/usr/bin/python
import <module1>, <module2>
 
def myFunction():
 
def main():
        myFunction()
 
if __name__=="__main__":
        main()
function

A common wording is to write each function separately, perform some operations and then return the result. Here's an example of this pseudocode demo that gives a very clear explanation of this concept:

# 声明函数/逻辑处理
def MyFunction:
 ...do work...
 return output

#在main函数里面调用:
def main():
 output = MyFunction(input)
class

The Python class can get a bit trickier to get started with, because it's about teaching you how to design your code. If you master the concept of classes then you can group the data and definitions into logical classes, so classes have attributes And associated with the way. When you define a class, you can create a new class and then inherit the properties of the previously created class and the methods associated with it. This programming is called object-oriented programming.

If you feel confused, then I suggest you not to learn class, in fact, you do not need a class. But it can make your code less redundant. Below we will define a new class "Domain" using the "class" keyword, when you instantiate a Domain type object, its type has many ways to define:

>>> import os
>>> class Domain:
...     def __init__(self, domain, port, protocol):
#通过两个内部变量存储变量
...       self.domain=domain
...       self.port=port
...       self.protocol=protocol
#构造一个url的方法
...     def URL(self):
...       if self.protocol == 'https':
...         URL = 'https://'+self.domain+':'+self.port+'/'
...       if self.protocol == 'http':
...         URL = 'http://'+self.domain+':'+self.port+'/'
...         return URL
# 调用os.system中主机命令lookup去解析域名
...     def lookup(self):
...       os.system("host "+self.domain)
...
>>>
>>> domain=Domain('google.com', '443', 'https')
>>>
>>> dir(domain)
['URL', '__doc__', '__init__', '__module__', 'ip', 'lookup', 'port', 'protocol']
>>> domain.URL()
'https://8.8.8.8:443/'
>>> domain.ip
'8.8.8.8'
>>> domain.port
'443'
>>> domain.protocol
'https'
>>> domain.lookup()
google.com has address 74.125.228.233
google.com has address 74.125.228.227
google.com has address 74.125.228.232
As you can see, when you instantiate a Domian class you can run the methods in the class. Say again, this concept was initially confusing, especially when you were just Python and programming. Try to implement a new class In your Python script, I found that this is the best way to master this concept.

Enter the value using the sys processing command line

It is best to introduce the sys module, which allows you to read the value entered from the command terminal and help you to import it into the script, the syntax is very simple, sys.agrv [0] is an actual script name, and A subscript is assigned after each parameter specified on the command line. Here is a simple example:

#!/usr/bin/python
import sys

script = sys.argv[0]
ip = sys.argv[1]
port = sys.argv[2]

print "[+] The script name is: "+script
print "[+] The IP is: "+ip+" and the port is: "+port

When this script is executed and the following three parameters are executed, the result is as follows:

~$ python sys.py 8.8.8.8 53
[+] The script name is: sys.py
[+] The IP is: 8.8.8.8 and the port is: 53
The above is just an example, you can continue to study other Python modules, because they can put you in the easiest way to solve your problems. The next chapter will introduce the use of Python for network connection and write a basic scanner.